index.md, before:

---
title: Home
layout: home
---

OpenNEC is a free and open-source Train Simulator Classic mod that greatly enhances the functionality of passenger locomotives released for the Northeast Corridor (Washington, D.C. to Boston) locale. It's a complete rescripting effort, using code written from scratch, to achieve an ultra-realistic driving experience.

## Drive easier with quality of life improvements.

A scrolling menu for changing destination signs. A progress bar for switching dual-power locomotive modes. Automatic bell when blowing the horn. And, oh, did we mention fading ditch lights?

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/destination-signs.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="Switching destination signs on the Acela" %}

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/power-switch.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="Switching power modes on the M8" %}

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/horn-bell.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="Using the horn on the ACS-64" %}

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/ditch-lights.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="Using the ditch lights on the HHP-8" %}

## Safety systems? We have safety systems.

The mod includes complete implementations of the two safety systems in use on the corridor. Amtrak's Advanced Civil Speed Enforcement System (ACSES) finally gets a proper rendition, with a braking curve that provides advance warning of any reduction in the track speed limit.

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/safety-systems.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="ACSES enforcement action on the ACS-64" %}

Automatic Train Control (ATC), which enforces the cab signal speed, is delightfully bug-free and is universally compatible--no longer do you need to switch it off just because your consist didn't ship with the route DLC you're driving. A must-have if you play scenarios from the scenario packs or the Steam Workshop.

![An ALP-46 on the New Haven Line](/assets/demo/alp46-stamford.webp)

![An HHP-8 on the New York-Philadelphia rendition of the NEC](/assets/demo/hhp8-philadelphia.webp)

## Plays nice with other community content.

The mod is fully compatible with Fan Railer's popular physics and sound enhancement packs. Plus, it sends the consist messages needed to power the next generation of community content, like the [Amfleet I Enhancement Pack](https://www.trainsimcommunity.com/mods/c1-train-sim-classic/c77-enhancement-packs/i3499-amfleet-i-enhancement-pack) and [Ragno's Viewliners](https://www.trainsimcommunity.com/mods/c1-train-sim-classic/c87-models/i1529-amtrak-viewliner-ii-baggages).

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/low-floor.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="Switching between high and low platforms with the Amfleet I" %}

Commit message:

feat: link to fan railer, add loco list

index.md, after:

---
title: Home
layout: home
---

OpenNEC is a free and open-source Train Simulator Classic mod that greatly enhances the functionality of passenger locomotives released for the Northeast Corridor (Washington, D.C. to Boston) locale. It's a complete rescripting effort, using code written from scratch, to achieve an ultra-realistic driving experience.

## Drive easier with quality of life improvements.

A scrolling menu for changing destination signs. A progress bar for switching dual-power locomotive modes. Automatic bell when blowing the horn. And, oh, did we mention fading ditch lights?

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/destination-signs.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="Switching destination signs on the Acela" %}

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/power-switch.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="Switching power modes on the M8" %}

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/horn-bell.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="Using the horn on the ACS-64" %}

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/ditch-lights.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="Using the ditch lights on the HHP-8" %}

## Safety systems? We have safety systems.

The mod includes complete implementations of the two safety systems in use on the corridor. Amtrak's Advanced Civil Speed Enforcement System (ACSES) finally gets a proper rendition, with a braking curve that provides advance warning of any reduction in the track speed limit.

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/safety-systems.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="ACSES enforcement action on the ACS-64" %}

Automatic Train Control (ATC), which enforces the cab signal speed, is delightfully bug-free and is universally compatible--no longer do you need to switch it off just because your consist didn't ship with the route DLC you're driving. A must-have if you play scenarios from the scenario packs or the Steam Workshop.

![An ALP-46 on the New Haven Line](/assets/demo/alp46-stamford.webp)

![An HHP-8 on the New York-Philadelphia rendition of the NEC](/assets/demo/hhp8-philadelphia.webp)

## Plays nice with other community content.

The mod is fully compatible with Fan Railer's popular [physics and sound enhancement packs](https://www.nyctarailfan.com/frtscmodifications). Plus, it sends the consist messages needed to power the next generation of community content, like the [Amfleet I Enhancement Pack](https://www.trainsimcommunity.com/mods/c1-train-sim-classic/c77-enhancement-packs/i3499-amfleet-i-enhancement-pack) and [Ragno's Viewliners](https://www.trainsimcommunity.com/mods/c1-train-sim-classic/c87-models/i1529-amtrak-viewliner-ii-baggages).

{% include video.html src="/assets/demo/low-floor.webm" width="1480" height="1110" type="video/webm" alt="Switching between high and low platforms with the Amfleet I" %}

## Enhances almost everything that moves passengers on the Northeast Corridor.

Currently, the complete list of enhanced locomotives includes:

- [Amtrak EMD AEM-7](https://store.steampowered.com/app/65232/Train_Simulator_Northeast_Corridor_New_York__Philadelphia_Route_AddOn/)
- [Amtrak Acela Express](https://store.steampowered.com/app/65231/Train_Simulator_Amtrak_Acela_Express_EMU_AddOn/)
- [Amtrak Bombardier HHP-8](https://store.steampowered.com/app/222558/Train_Simulator_Amtrak_HHP8_Loco_AddOn/)
- [Amtrak Siemens ACS-64](https://store.steampowered.com/app/258643/Train_Simulator_NEC_New_YorkNew_Haven_Route_AddOn/)
- [Amtrak GE P32AC-DM](https://store.steampowered.com/app/896719/Train_Simulator_Hudson_Line_New_York__CrotonHarmon_Route_AddOn/)
- [Amtrak GE P42DC](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1429754/Train_Simulator_Northeast_Corridor_Washington_DC__Baltimore_Route_AddOn/)
- [NJ Transit Bombardier ALP-45DP](https://store.steampowered.com/app/325970/Train_Simulator_North_Jersey_Coast_Line_Route_AddOn/)
- [NJ Transit Bombardier ALP-46](https://store.steampowered.com/app/258658/Train_Simulator_NJ_TRANSIT_ALP46_Loco_AddOn/)
- [NJ Transit GE Arrow III](https://store.steampowered.com/app/500247/Train_Simulator_NJ_TRANSIT_Arrow_III_EMU_AddOn/)
- [NJ Transit EMD GP40PH-2B](https://store.steampowered.com/app/325991/Train_Simulator_NJ_TRANSIT_GP40PH2B_Loco_AddOn/)
- [NJ Transit Comet IV Cab Car](https://store.steampowered.com/app/500218/Train_Simulator_North_Jersey_Coast__Morristown_Lines_Route_AddOn/)
- [NJ Transit Comet V Cab Car](https://store.steampowered.com/app/325970/Train_Simulator_North_Jersey_Coast_Line_Route_AddOn/)
- [NJ Transit Bombardier Multilevel Cab Car](https://store.steampowered.com/app/325970/Train_Simulator_North_Jersey_Coast_Line_Route_AddOn/)
- [MARC MPI MP36PH](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1429754/Train_Simulator_Northeast_Corridor_Washington_DC__Baltimore_Route_AddOn/)
- [MARC Bombardier Multilevel Cab Car](https://store.steampowered.com/app/1429754/Train_Simulator_Northeast_Corridor_Washington_DC__Baltimore_Route_AddOn/)
- [Metro-North GE P32AC-DM](https://store.steampowered.com/app/258655/Train_Simulator_MetroNorth_P32_ACDM_Genesis_Loco_AddOn/)
- [Metro-North Shoreliner Cab Car](https://store.steampowered.com/app/258655/Train_Simulator_MetroNorth_P32_ACDM_Genesis_Loco_AddOn/)
- [Metro-North Bombardier M7](https://store.steampowered.com/app/896719/Train_Simulator_Hudson_Line_New_York__CrotonHarmon_Route_AddOn/)
- [Metro-North Kawasaki M8](https://store.steampowered.com/app/258647/Train_Simulator_MetroNorth_Kawasaki_M8_EMU_AddOn/)

(If your Train Simulator collection isn't quite yet complete, don't worry--each script replacement is standalone and doesn't depend on the full set of DLC to work.)
